Q1: FDB decouples the two components to separate coordination from data storage, which allows each layer to scale and recover independently. The Transaction Management System doesn't depend on where or how data is stored, it only handles assigning versions, detecting conflicts, and ordering commits. Therefore, separating it from the storage system allows faster recovery and flexible scaling. 

Q2: Resolvers are responsible for detecting read-write conflicts between concurrent transactions. This check occurs during the commit phase, after the transaction has been assigned a version and before it is finalized. 

Q3: The purpose of the read version is to get a consistent snapshot of the database at a specific time and make sure that all reads in a transaction capture a serializable view of the database with other potential transactions being committed at the same time. This is important for the consistency guarantees and strict serializability that FDB provides, transactions behave as if they are running in a single global order. 

Q4: Snapshot reads differ from standard reads in that snapshot reads do not involve conflict detection or add entries to the transaction's read conflict set, while standard reads do involve conflict detection and can cause aborts if data changes. Since snapshot reads don't track changes in data, they do not cause aborts. Therefore, you would choose snapshot reads when performance, speed, estimates, and large throughput are more important or acceptable than strict accuracy, such as for analytics or large scans. On the other hand, you would choose standard reads if you want more accuracy and recent data or real time updates, such as a stock trading app monitoring the immediate price of a stock to execute a trade.

Q5: FDB's recovery is cheap because all committed mutations are stored durably by LogServers before they are applied to StorageServers. Mutations are written to LogServers before being asynchronously applied to StorageServers during normal operation, and in the case of failure, new StorageServers can rebuild directly from the logs without needing to replay a redo log in the critical path. This prevents slow recovery and allows the system to resume normal operation fast while data is being rebuilt. 
